Soft - Communication - Answer to point

Intro - Python - very strong -

DevOps - EKS -

GIL - Async  I/O - multi threading - multi process - oops -
Lint - Pylint -
Complex situation, user stream,
Narrow down the problem statement
Concurrent Users -
Express answer in crisp -
Kubernatics -
ACD - key value store
do you want me explain more in
Boto3 - Async - alternate AIBoto3 for async operation
AWS - access log, monitor services
APM tools - data log
Security. -
Async  I/O - how you implement 2 thread
Kubernatics architecture - complete
Terminology defining


Secrets ask , alternate -., hasicorp

Spin up pods,

Differ
Docker -

3 important scenarios :

Portal  pods - is running slow->

Approach:

Counter query -> particular user, region,

favaraite bug or complex issue resolved

Favraite library -> show passionate over library

Pandas , numpy ,

senario based question

Form your question

python testing tools -

lint

portery - package dependency

precommits - better place local or precommit or CI/CD

CI/CD pipelines detailed


On Tue, Dec 5, 2023 at 1:09 PM Gururaju G <gururajutalks@gmail.com> wrote:
1. What are the gotchas with Pandas?
    2. Can we do async functions with boto3?
    3. Download a large file. How to do it async fashion?
    4. Multiprocessing vs multithreading vs async
    5. ORM with Django?
    6. When working with Python dependency management, which tool did you use?
    7. What do you do for mocking?
    8. How do you authenticate your APIs?
    9. Have you come across any issues or pitfalls in Python, related to typing (duck typing, no strict typing enforced)?
    10. Did you face any difficulties in terms of validating data when working big data or something? Have you used libraries?
    11. Recommended approach for managing dependencies?
    12. How does Kubernetes secure secrets?
    13. Which format does Kubernetes secure secrets?
    14. How well do you understand Kubernetes APIs?
    15. Are you familiar with Kubernetes services? Like Metadata, Spec?
    16. Do you know what's a control plane in Kubernetes?
    17. Do you know what's etcd in Kubernetes?
    18. Have you handled REST APIs other than Django?
    19. Have you used Fast APIs?
    20. Have you used Kafka?
    21. How can you create topics in Kafka? How many ways?
    22. What's the benefit of using Kafka instead of Queues?
    23. Why can't I use SQS or RabbitMQ instead of Kafka?
    24. Recent version of Kafka doesn't use ZooKeeper. Are you aware?
    25. What is a Kafka Broker?
    26. Why or when would you choose Django REST APIs vs Flask APIs?
    27. If you need to use an ORM?
    28. Explain the project structure - include pytests
    29. Explain the structure of a pytest or a unittest file?
    30. What are the best practices for writing pytest cases? What all does a typical unit test framework will have? What all do you in preparation for unit test to work?
    31. Do you know what mocking of functions?
    32. Do you know Setup and Teardown in tests?
    33. Let's say an API that you used was taking 1 sec earlier, but now it's taking 5 secs. How do you debug the issue?
    34. What's the difference between FastAPI vs Flask API? What would you pick and why?
    35. How do you secure your API endpoint in Django?
    36. What are __init__.py, settings.py and manage.py in Django framework?
    37. What is your favorite package and why? What's the killer feature you liked in the package?
    38. Which way you like in Pandas - using iloc, loc?
    39. How do you write code? - VSCode/PyCharm?
    40. Where would you keep your code analysis and others - local dev in tools or in pipelines?
    41. APIs are slow - walk me through the process?
    42. Do you use a profiler?
    43. When someone says application is slow, what information would you collect from the users?
    44. If someone says application is loading slow, is that information sufficient?
    45. Why do we use containerization?
    46. Why is Kubernetes required? Fault Tolerance and Scalability
    47. Are you aware of Kubernetes resources and config files etc.?
    48. Do you understand the Docker file?
    49. What's the first line of the docker file?
    50. Have you used anything beyond requirements.txt? Dependency management. Have you heard poetry?
    51. Have you used Python programs or CLI with Cloud?
has context menuCompose
