Which of the following is used to separate the key and value in YAML?



comma


semicolon


hyphen


colon

Ans: D (colon)
    why colon? because it is used to separate the key and value in YAML.

How many array keys are there in the following yaml snippet?



Fruits:
  - Orange
  - Apple
  - Banana
Vegetables:
  - Carrot
  - CauliFlower
  - Tomato

2


8


6


3

Ans: A (2)

How to count?
Fruits and Vegetables are the keys..
Orange, Apple, Banana, Carrot, CauliFlower, Tomato are the values..
So, 2 keys and 6 values.. 2+6=8.. but the question is asking for keys.. so, the answer is 2.

Which of the following statements is true?



A. Dictionary is an unordered collection whereas list is an ordered collection.


B. Dictionary is an ordered collection whereas list is an unordered collection.


C. Dictionary and list, both are an ordered collection.


D. Dictionary and list, both are an unordered collection.


B


C


A


D

Ans: A (Dictionary is an unordered collection whereas list is an ordered collection.)
    Dictionary is an unordered collection whereas list is an ordered collection.

    How above statement is true?
    Dictionary is an unordered collection because it is a collection of key-value pairs and the order of the keys is not important.
    List is an ordered collection because it is a collection of values and the order of the values is important.

    Example:
    Dictionary: {key1: value1, key2: value2, key3: value3}
    List: [value1, value2, value3]

    In dictionary, the order of the keys is not important. But in list, the order of the values is important.

    So, Dictionary is an unordered collection whereas list is an ordered collection.

    Note: Dictionary is an unordered collection of key-value pairs. List is an ordered collection of values.

There is a yaml file named practice.yaml under /home/bob/playbooks/ directory with a key property1 and value value1.


Add an additional key named property2 and value value2.


solution file: /home/bob/playbooks/practice.yaml

    property1: value1
    property2: value2
Above example Can you write it in yaml format?

    property1: value1
    property2: value2

We have updated the /home/bob/playbooks/practice.yaml file with the key name and value apple. Add some additional properties (given below) to the dictionary.


name= apple
color= red
weight= 90g


CheckCompleteIncomplete
Added some additional properties to the dictionary in "practice.yaml" file?

        name: apple
        color: red
        weight: 90g

We have updated the /home/bob/playbooks/practice.yaml file with a dictionary named employee. Add the remaining properties to it using information from the table below.


Key/Property	Value
name	john
gender	male
age	24

Ans:

name: john
gender: male
age: 24

Now, update the /home/bob/playbooks/practice.yaml file with a dictionary in dictionary.

Add a dictionary named address to add the address information in this file.


Key/Property	Value
city	edison
state	new jersey
country	united states

CheckCompleteIncomplete
Added a dictionary named "address" to add the address information in "practice.yaml" file?

city: edison
state: new jersey
country: united states
address:
  city: edison
  state: new jersey
  country: united states

We have updated the /home/bob/playbooks/practice.yaml file with an array of apples. Add a new apple to the list to make it a total of 4.


CheckCompleteIncomplete
Added a new apple to the list to make it a total of 4 in "practice.yaml"?

apples:
  - red
  - green
  - yellow
  - pink

We have updated the /home/bob/playbooks/practice.yaml file with some data for apple, orange and mango. Just like apple, we would like to add additional details for each item, such as color, weight etc. Modify the remaining items to match the below data.


orange

color	weight
orange	90g


mango

color	weight
yellow	150g

CheckCompleteIncomplete
Verify the details like color, weight etc for Apple.

Verify the details like color, weight etc for Orange.

Verify the details like color, weight etc for Mango.

apples:
  - color: red
    weight: 90g
  - color: green
    weight: 100g
  - color: yellow
    weight: 120g
  - color: pink
    weight: 110g

oranges:
    - color: orange
        weight: 90g

mangoes:
    - color: yellow
        weight: 150g

We have updated the /home/bob/playbooks/practice.yaml file with a dictionary named employee. We would like to record information about multiple employees. Convert the dictionary named employee to an array named employees.


CheckCompleteIncomplete
Converted the dictionary named "employee" to an array named "employees" in "practice.yaml"?


Update the /home/bob/playbooks/practice.yaml file to add an additional employee (below the existing entry) to the list using the below information.


Key/Property	Value
name	sarah
gender	female
age	28

CheckCompleteIncomplete
Verify the existing employees in "practice.yaml" file.

Verify the new employees entry in "practice.yaml" file.

We have updated the /home/bob/playbooks/practice.yaml file to add some more details. Now add the pay information. Remember, while address is a dictionary, payslips is an array of month and amount.


payslips

month	amount
june	1400
july	2400
august	3400



CheckCompleteIncomplete
Verify the "June" month pay in "practice.yaml" file.

Verify the "July" month pay in "practice.yaml" file.

Verify the "August" month pay in "practice.yaml" file.









